docs/NotificationProposal.md, before:

# Web Browser Push Notifications for New Netmail

## Overview

This proposal outlines adding web browser push notifications to BinktermPHP so users receive immediate alerts when new netmail arrives, even when their browser is closed.

## Requirements

- Web Push API notifications triggered on new netmail receipt
- Immediate delivery (not batched)
- Per-user toggle in Settings page
- Works across devices/browsers

---

## Implementation Steps

### 1. Database Migration

**File:** `database/migrations/v1.7.0_add_push_subscriptions.sql`

```sql
-- Table to store push notification subscriptions
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS push_subscriptions (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    user_id INTEGER NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
    endpoint TEXT NOT NULL,
    p256dh_key TEXT NOT NULL,
    auth_key TEXT NOT NULL,
    user_agent TEXT,
    created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    last_used_at TIMESTAMP,
    is_active BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE,
    UNIQUE(user_id, endpoint)
);

CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_push_subscriptions_user_id ON push_subscriptions(user_id);
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_push_subscriptions_active ON push_subscriptions(user_id, is_active);

-- Add push notification preference to user_settings
ALTER TABLE user_settings ADD COLUMN IF NOT EXISTS push_notifications_enabled BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE;
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_user_settings_push_enabled ON user_settings(push_notifications_enabled);
```

### 2. Add Composer Dependency

```bash
composer require minishlink/web-push
```

The `minishlink/web-push` library handles VAPID authentication and push message encryption.

### 3. Environment Configuration

Add to `.env`:

```
# VAPID keys for Web Push Notifications
# Generate with: vendor/bin/web-push generate:vapid-keys
VAPID_PUBLIC_KEY=<generated_public_key>
VAPID_PRIVATE_KEY=<generated_private_key>
VAPID_SUBJECT=mailto:admin@example.com
```

### 4. Create Push Notification Service

**New File:** `src/PushNotificationService.php`

Key methods:

| Method | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `isEnabled()` | Check if VAPID keys are configured |
| `getVapidPublicKey()` | Return public key for frontend |
| `saveSubscription()` | Store browser push subscription |
| `removeSubscription()` | Remove subscription on unsubscribe |
| `getUserSubscriptions()` | Get all active subscriptions for a user |
| `isUserPushEnabled()` | Check user preference setting |
| `sendNetmailNotification()` | Send push to user's subscribed browsers |

The service will:
- Use the web-push library to send encrypted notifications
- Support multiple subscriptions per user (different browsers/devices)
- Automatically deactivate expired subscriptions
- Log failures without blocking message storage

### 5. Update Service Worker

**File:** `public_html/sw.js`

Add handlers for:

```javascript
// Handle incoming push notifications
self.addEventListener('push', (event) => {
    const data = event.data.json();
    const options = {
        body: data.body,
        icon: '/favicon.svg',
        tag: data.tag,
        data: { url: '/netmail' },
        requireInteraction: true
    };
    event.waitUntil(
        self.registration.showNotification(data.title, options)
    );
});

// Handle notification click - navigate to netmail
self.addEventListener('notificationclick', (event) => {
    event.notification.close();
    event.waitUntil(
        clients.openWindow(event.notification.data?.url || '/netmail')
    );
});

// Handle subscription changes (browser regenerates keys)
self.addEventListener('pushsubscriptionchange', (event) => {
    // Re-subscribe and update server
});
```

### 6. Create Frontend JavaScript Module

**New File:** `public_html/js/push-notifications.js`

`PushNotificationManager` object with:

| Method | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `init()` | Fetch VAPID key from server |
| `getPermissionState()` | Check current browser permission |
| `requestPermission()` | Request browser notification permission |
| `subscribe()` | Create push subscription and send to server |
| `unsubscribe()` | Remove push subscription |
| `isSubscribed()` | Check if currently subscribed |

### 7. Update Settings Page

**File:** `templates/settings.twig`

Add "Push Notifications" card section with:

- Toggle switch for enabling/disabling notifications
- Permission request button (shown if permission not yet granted)
- Status indicator showing if notifications are active
- Test notification button
- Browser support detection with fallback message

### 8. Add API Routes

**File:** `routes/api-routes.php`

| Endpoint | Method | Purpose |
|----------|--------|---------|
| `/api/push/vapid-key` | GET | Return public VAPID key for subscription |
| `/api/push/subscribe` | POST | Save browser subscription to database |
| `/api/push/unsubscribe` | POST | Remove subscription from database |
| `/api/push/test` | POST | Send test notification to current user |

All endpoints except `vapid-key` require authentication.

### 9. Update MessageHandler

**File:** `src/MessageHandler.php`

Add `push_notifications_enabled` to `$allowedSettings` whitelist in `updateUserSettings()` method:

```php
$allowedSettings = [
    // ... existing settings ...
    'push_notifications_enabled' => 'BOOLEAN'
];
```

### 10. Hook into Netmail Storage

**File:** `src/BinkdProcessor.php`

In `storeNetmail()` method, after the message is stored (around line 612), add:

```php
// Send push notification for new netmail
if ($userId) {
    try {
        $pushService = new \BinktermPHP\PushNotificationService();
        $pushService->sendNetmailNotification($userId, [
            'id' => $this->db->lastInsertId(),
            'from_name' => $message['fromName'],
            'subject' => $message['subject']
        ]);
    } catch (\Exception $e) {
        // Log but don't fail message storage
        error_log("[BINKD] Push notification failed: " . $e->getMessage());
    }
}
```

### 11. Version Bump

Update version to 1.7.0 in:
- `src/Version.php`
- `composer.json`
- `templates/recent_updates.twig` (add changelog entry)

---

## Files Summary

### New Files

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `database/migrations/v1.7.0_add_push_subscriptions.sql` | Database schema changes |
| `src/PushNotificationService.php` | Backend push notification logic |
| `public_html/js/push-notifications.js` | Frontend subscription manager |

### Modified Files

| File | Changes |
|------|---------|
| `public_html/sw.js` | Add push/notification event handlers |
| `templates/settings.twig` | Add notifications UI section |
| `routes/api-routes.php` | Add 4 new push API endpoints |
| `src/MessageHandler.php` | Allow new setting in whitelist |
| `src/BinkdProcessor.php` | Trigger notification on netmail receipt |
| `src/Version.php` | Bump to 1.7.0 |
| `composer.json` | Add web-push dependency, bump version |
| `templates/recent_updates.twig` | Add changelog entry |

---

## Security Considerations

1. **VAPID Keys**: Generate unique keys per installation; store in `.env` (never commit to source control)
2. **Authentication**: All push API endpoints (except vapid-key) require user authentication
3. **Data Minimization**: Push payloads contain only sender name and subject, not message body
4. **Subscription Validation**: Endpoints validated by web-push library
5. **Expired Cleanup**: Automatically deactivate subscriptions that return expired errors
6. **HTTPS Required**: Web Push API requires HTTPS (except localhost for development)
7. **User Control**: Users can enable/disable notifications at any time

---

## Browser Support

Web Push is supported in:
- Chrome/Edge (desktop and Android)
- Firefox (desktop and Android)
- Safari 16+ (macOS Ventura and iOS 16.4+)
- Opera

Not supported:
- Safari < 16
- iOS Safari < 16.4
- Internet Explorer

The settings page will detect support and show appropriate messaging.

---

## Verification Steps

1. Run migration: `psql -f database/migrations/v1.7.0_add_push_subscriptions.sql`
2. Install dependency: `composer require minishlink/web-push`
3. Generate VAPID keys and add to `.env`
4. Visit Settings page → "Push Notifications" section should appear
5. Click "Enable Notifications" → Browser should prompt for permission
6. Grant permission and toggle on → Should show "active" status
7. Click "Send Test Notification" → Should receive browser notification
8. Receive a netmail via binkp poll → Should receive push notification
9. Click notification → Should open/focus app and navigate to netmail
10. Toggle off in settings → Should stop receiving notifications

---

## Future Enhancements

- Notification for echomail in subscribed areas (optional per-area setting)
- Notification grouping/batching option for high-volume users
- Notification sound customization
- Do Not Disturb schedule
- Admin broadcast notifications

Commit message:

* Add note to top of proposals that they for general information only as they were generated by AI, may be out of date and may not be accurate.

docs/NotificationProposal.md, after:

# Web Browser Push Notifications for New Netmail

## Overview

This proposal was generated by AI and may not be up-to-date.  It is meant as a general overview, and may not be accurate. It outlines adding web browser push notifications to BinktermPHP so users receive immediate alerts when new netmail arrives, even when their browser is closed.

## Requirements

- Web Push API notifications triggered on new netmail receipt
- Immediate delivery (not batched)
- Per-user toggle in Settings page
- Works across devices/browsers

---

## Implementation Steps

### 1. Database Migration

**File:** `database/migrations/v1.7.0_add_push_subscriptions.sql`

```sql
-- Table to store push notification subscriptions
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS push_subscriptions (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    user_id INTEGER NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
    endpoint TEXT NOT NULL,
    p256dh_key TEXT NOT NULL,
    auth_key TEXT NOT NULL,
    user_agent TEXT,
    created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    last_used_at TIMESTAMP,
    is_active BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE,
    UNIQUE(user_id, endpoint)
);

CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_push_subscriptions_user_id ON push_subscriptions(user_id);
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_push_subscriptions_active ON push_subscriptions(user_id, is_active);

-- Add push notification preference to user_settings
ALTER TABLE user_settings ADD COLUMN IF NOT EXISTS push_notifications_enabled BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE;
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_user_settings_push_enabled ON user_settings(push_notifications_enabled);
```

### 2. Add Composer Dependency

```bash
composer require minishlink/web-push
```

The `minishlink/web-push` library handles VAPID authentication and push message encryption.

### 3. Environment Configuration

Add to `.env`:

```
# VAPID keys for Web Push Notifications
# Generate with: vendor/bin/web-push generate:vapid-keys
VAPID_PUBLIC_KEY=<generated_public_key>
VAPID_PRIVATE_KEY=<generated_private_key>
VAPID_SUBJECT=mailto:admin@example.com
```

### 4. Create Push Notification Service

**New File:** `src/PushNotificationService.php`

Key methods:

| Method | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `isEnabled()` | Check if VAPID keys are configured |
| `getVapidPublicKey()` | Return public key for frontend |
| `saveSubscription()` | Store browser push subscription |
| `removeSubscription()` | Remove subscription on unsubscribe |
| `getUserSubscriptions()` | Get all active subscriptions for a user |
| `isUserPushEnabled()` | Check user preference setting |
| `sendNetmailNotification()` | Send push to user's subscribed browsers |

The service will:
- Use the web-push library to send encrypted notifications
- Support multiple subscriptions per user (different browsers/devices)
- Automatically deactivate expired subscriptions
- Log failures without blocking message storage

### 5. Update Service Worker

**File:** `public_html/sw.js`

Add handlers for:

```javascript
// Handle incoming push notifications
self.addEventListener('push', (event) => {
    const data = event.data.json();
    const options = {
        body: data.body,
        icon: '/favicon.svg',
        tag: data.tag,
        data: { url: '/netmail' },
        requireInteraction: true
    };
    event.waitUntil(
        self.registration.showNotification(data.title, options)
    );
});

// Handle notification click - navigate to netmail
self.addEventListener('notificationclick', (event) => {
    event.notification.close();
    event.waitUntil(
        clients.openWindow(event.notification.data?.url || '/netmail')
    );
});

// Handle subscription changes (browser regenerates keys)
self.addEventListener('pushsubscriptionchange', (event) => {
    // Re-subscribe and update server
});
```

### 6. Create Frontend JavaScript Module

**New File:** `public_html/js/push-notifications.js`

`PushNotificationManager` object with:

| Method | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `init()` | Fetch VAPID key from server |
| `getPermissionState()` | Check current browser permission |
| `requestPermission()` | Request browser notification permission |
| `subscribe()` | Create push subscription and send to server |
| `unsubscribe()` | Remove push subscription |
| `isSubscribed()` | Check if currently subscribed |

### 7. Update Settings Page

**File:** `templates/settings.twig`

Add "Push Notifications" card section with:

- Toggle switch for enabling/disabling notifications
- Permission request button (shown if permission not yet granted)
- Status indicator showing if notifications are active
- Test notification button
- Browser support detection with fallback message

### 8. Add API Routes

**File:** `routes/api-routes.php`

| Endpoint | Method | Purpose |
|----------|--------|---------|
| `/api/push/vapid-key` | GET | Return public VAPID key for subscription |
| `/api/push/subscribe` | POST | Save browser subscription to database |
| `/api/push/unsubscribe` | POST | Remove subscription from database |
| `/api/push/test` | POST | Send test notification to current user |

All endpoints except `vapid-key` require authentication.

### 9. Update MessageHandler

**File:** `src/MessageHandler.php`

Add `push_notifications_enabled` to `$allowedSettings` whitelist in `updateUserSettings()` method:

```php
$allowedSettings = [
    // ... existing settings ...
    'push_notifications_enabled' => 'BOOLEAN'
];
```

### 10. Hook into Netmail Storage

**File:** `src/BinkdProcessor.php`

In `storeNetmail()` method, after the message is stored (around line 612), add:

```php
// Send push notification for new netmail
if ($userId) {
    try {
        $pushService = new \BinktermPHP\PushNotificationService();
        $pushService->sendNetmailNotification($userId, [
            'id' => $this->db->lastInsertId(),
            'from_name' => $message['fromName'],
            'subject' => $message['subject']
        ]);
    } catch (\Exception $e) {
        // Log but don't fail message storage
        error_log("[BINKD] Push notification failed: " . $e->getMessage());
    }
}
```

### 11. Version Bump

Update version to 1.7.0 in:
- `src/Version.php`
- `composer.json`
- `templates/recent_updates.twig` (add changelog entry)

---

## Files Summary

### New Files

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `database/migrations/v1.7.0_add_push_subscriptions.sql` | Database schema changes |
| `src/PushNotificationService.php` | Backend push notification logic |
| `public_html/js/push-notifications.js` | Frontend subscription manager |

### Modified Files

| File | Changes |
|------|---------|
| `public_html/sw.js` | Add push/notification event handlers |
| `templates/settings.twig` | Add notifications UI section |
| `routes/api-routes.php` | Add 4 new push API endpoints |
| `src/MessageHandler.php` | Allow new setting in whitelist |
| `src/BinkdProcessor.php` | Trigger notification on netmail receipt |
| `src/Version.php` | Bump to 1.7.0 |
| `composer.json` | Add web-push dependency, bump version |
| `templates/recent_updates.twig` | Add changelog entry |

---

## Security Considerations

1. **VAPID Keys**: Generate unique keys per installation; store in `.env` (never commit to source control)
2. **Authentication**: All push API endpoints (except vapid-key) require user authentication
3. **Data Minimization**: Push payloads contain only sender name and subject, not message body
4. **Subscription Validation**: Endpoints validated by web-push library
5. **Expired Cleanup**: Automatically deactivate subscriptions that return expired errors
6. **HTTPS Required**: Web Push API requires HTTPS (except localhost for development)
7. **User Control**: Users can enable/disable notifications at any time

---

## Browser Support

Web Push is supported in:
- Chrome/Edge (desktop and Android)
- Firefox (desktop and Android)
- Safari 16+ (macOS Ventura and iOS 16.4+)
- Opera

Not supported:
- Safari < 16
- iOS Safari < 16.4
- Internet Explorer

The settings page will detect support and show appropriate messaging.

---

## Verification Steps

1. Run migration: `psql -f database/migrations/v1.7.0_add_push_subscriptions.sql`
2. Install dependency: `composer require minishlink/web-push`
3. Generate VAPID keys and add to `.env`
4. Visit Settings page → "Push Notifications" section should appear
5. Click "Enable Notifications" → Browser should prompt for permission
6. Grant permission and toggle on → Should show "active" status
7. Click "Send Test Notification" → Should receive browser notification
8. Receive a netmail via binkp poll → Should receive push notification
9. Click notification → Should open/focus app and navigate to netmail
10. Toggle off in settings → Should stop receiving notifications

---

## Future Enhancements

- Notification for echomail in subscribed areas (optional per-area setting)
- Notification grouping/batching option for high-volume users
- Notification sound customization
- Do Not Disturb schedule
- Admin broadcast notifications
